Thanks for listening, thanks for
tuning in, happy to take any questions.
And if you're on this repo and you see
any issues with the repo or you have any
particular problems or questions,
feel free to pop an issue open and
if I have some time,
I'll try and get to you there.
>> What kind of limitations
have you met with Web Audio?
>> So there's a lot of, I mean,
it's been getting a lot better
in the last couple years.
But when I started doing Web Audio,
there was a lot of different browser
problems across different browsers.
So Safari wouldn't support certain things,
and mobile phones wouldn't support
certain things, and it was
this nightmare to try and manage all these
different browser incompatibilities.
It's gotten a lot better though and
recently,
I'd say it's starting to get to a point
where you just are able to code it in
the way that it shows on the MDN website.
And you don't have to worry too
much about incompatibilities.
So that's one thing just to be aware
of if you are trying to support,
let's say older browsers, or older phones.
Other problems sometimes have to do
with things like popping and clicking,
that's always been a bit of a weird
thing where certain devices they're just
not able to handle dozens of SINTs
overlapping with effects and reverbs.
It starts to slowed down, especially
if you're doing that at the same
time as really pushing the browser in
terms of maybe the GPU and the CPU.
And you're just really maxing out
the capabilities of the browser and
the device.
Sometimes you might start to get
some issues in terms of lag or
in terms of popping and clicking
that's happening in the Web Audio.
And then also as much as it's,
there's a lot of resources and
there's a lot of information,
a lot of libraries,
it's still kind of a complex beast.
There's still a lot to unpack,
because it's an API that's
really powerful and
able to do a lot of amazing things.
But it's also an API that is sometimes so
low level and requires you to do so
much more on top of it in order
to achieve certain things.
So I can't think of any really specific
examples, but in the past I've had to
do some pretty wonky things with decoding
WAV files because Web Audio API for
some reason didn't support a certain
type of WAV file or something like that.
Or potentially having to do some
weird stuff where like timing,
because the Web Audio API
doesn't always give you like
a super easy set timeout type of function,
so
you have to really build out these
complex schedule and things like that.
So, yeah, that's one thing,
I guess, is that it's low level and
it takes a bit of time to
build on top of it and
that's why these libraries
like Tone.js are helpful.
But they also have very specific goals in
mind that maybe won't apply very well for
your application or your game.
>> What about kick detection or
beat detection?
>> Yeah, so there's some libraries
that do this kind of work very
specifically and
they have some really smart algorithms for
how to detect the kick drum
in any arbitrary track.
So kind of like that problem
that came up earlier is like,
how do you do visualization when
you wanna support any type of audio
instead of just the audio that's
always within a specific range?
And so these beat detection libraries,
they tend to use these complex
algorithms that use a lot of math and
it's beyond what I know how to
do kind of in this kind of,
fast Fourier transform type of
math is a little bit above me.
But it's pretty powerful and you can
use those to augment your visualizers.
There are some libraries
that are really designed for
specifically doing
visualization on something like
an electronic track that
supports kick drum detection and
things like that that are beyond what
I've been sort of talking about today.
So yeah, it's a useful thing to look into.
>> Are there any tools with helping
combining audio, visuals, and
mobile device gyroscope?
>> Well, if you have a mobile
device gyroscope APIs support,
if it's enabled on the phone and
you can use the gyroscope,
then you can kinda do what we've
been doing today in the course.
Where you have maybe filters or effects
and the parameters of those filters
are changing based on
the value of the gyroscope.
So you could do something like that and it
could be quite fun where maybe depending
on how the phone is being positioned,
it's changing the audio.
So that wouldn't really
require its own library.
You could do it already just with Tone.js,
you might have to just google
search gyroscope JavaScript and
find some of the details
around how do you access this.
And it would be something like that.
>> Have you experimented with
using WebSockets along with
audio to sync users in real time?
>> No, I haven't tried using
WebSockets to sync audio.
I imagine, actually I might have,
I wasn't really directly
part of this project.
But there was a project many years ago
at an agency I was working at where
there needed to be a sync where one
person would push a play button and
many devices would play the audio.
And I think for
the most part with WebSockets it was okay.
But I think because audio is so
specific, that if it's a fraction of
a second out of sync, your brain can
really, really detect the problem,
your brain is really good at detecting
small flaws with these kinda things.
And so I think there was some challenges
with getting that to work perfectly
because if even one was out of sync
to the other just a little bit,
it wouldn't sound great.
And I think what they ended up doing was
having to sort of forge it a little bit by
making it so that even though you say
play it at one millisecond from now.
The phone would actually say okay,
I'm gonna play it a little bit earlier
than that or something like that,
just to make sure that it's
playing at the perfect moment.
I think generally with the web,
one of the things that's lacking in not
just audio but also visual,
video sort of playback,
is really fine grained, very accurate
level controls of media playback.
So for example, saying I want to play
this MP4 or MP3, whether it's video or
audio or both, I wanna play it from
a specific timestamp that is down
to the exact frame that I wanna play or
something like that.
The web's not so good at those kind
of exact playbacks, unfortunately.
But it probably is possible
at a basic level and
you might be able to create some
really cool projects out of it still.
>> Are there ways to route signals to and
from outside of the browser for
external heavy processing?
>> So that's something I
haven't explored too much of.
I mean, typically what we would do if
we're doing some sort of installation or
something that's using Web Audio,
is it would just be using the output
device of the computer or laptop.
I mean, basically from the browser
to the output device, and
then sending that along to something that
might be totally unrelated to the browser.
Maybe even it could be some sort of
visual output like sending the signal
to a physical device, like a physical
RGB strip or something like that.
So it's still coming from the browser and
you're just using different physical
plugs and different sort of interfaces
that are physical audio interfaces
to reroute that to different places.
Where you might be able to explore as
well, and this is a different path
that I haven't really looked into,
is WebRTC has been coming a long way.
And there may be ways of
piping the signal directly
from an audio node into
a WebRTC stream of some kind,
which may allow you to
stream audio to appear
in a peer-to-peer kind of situation.
And one other thing, I guess,
worth mentioning as well
is offline audio context.
So, so far all the audio that we've
been exploring is real time playback of
audio for the purpose of you're hearing
it, you're interacting with it,
you're able to play with the audio and
hear it at the same time.
But if you wanted to do something like,
let's say you wanted to build a MP3
converter or something like that or
you wanted to build a tool
like Audacity or like Ableton.
Or some sort of audio tool,
a digital audio workstation, and
you wanted to render out an MP3 file or
a WAV file with some audio nodes and
using the same structure
that we've been exploring.
And so you don't want it to be in
real time cuz you don't want it
to just you have to wait for
a whole two minutes,
you want it to run faster than real
time or as fast as it possibly can.
And you don't really need it to go through
the speakers because it's just running
internally to convert,
let's say one format to another or
to add effects to something and
then produce a file.
You can use this OfflineAudioContext,
which is only really in new browsers,
like Chrome and things, but
it's quite useful for that.
>> There's a more general
question from online,
how do you go about finding inspiration
for creating the things that you do?
>> Yeah, so a lot of the inspiration
that I find is actually through online,
through Twitter, through Instagram,
following other artists and creators, and
sometimes game developers.
Or sometimes people that are just making
these kinds of audio visual experiences.
It took me a while to sort of build up
this this group of people that I've
been following that seem to always
be producing really amazing work.
Or at least every time I look at
my Twitter and Instagram feeds,
I'm just constantly blown away.
And I guess that's because of many
years of searching and following and
then looking at who
people are following and
who they're resharing and
then finding more through them.
So that's probably the main source of
most of my inspiration these days.
But also especially as things
are beginning to open up a little bit,
I kind of realized how much I missed
being at events in person and
finding these kind of events that
are maybe art exhibitions or
music shows or something like that.
That's a little bit off the beat and
track, an example of that is Ryoji Ikeda,
I'm not sure if he's still,
spell his name, Ryoji,
there it is, not sure if he's
still doing his show in London.
He might be, 180 The Strand,
but this is a good example,
is I heard about this show in London and
it's really the kinda
thing where you look at the site and
it looks kinda interesting.
It seems like they might have changed
from his to a different exhibition,
but you go to this and
suddenly you're kind of presented with
an exhibition that really blows you away.
And I think just being at
these kinds of events,
you are really inspired more than you
really can be in some ways just by
browsing your phone cuz it just
transports you to another world almost.
And so, yeah, I guess going to actual
exhibitions and trying to actively seek
these installations and trying to find
out how to actually visit them in person.
That's been pretty transformative, and
just being able to access that
lately has been really nice.
So I managed to go see this one and
this was a couple months back.
And you leave the exhibition with
your ears ringing in your eyes
kind of a little blurry because it was
just so much raw visuals and noise.
But you're kinda leaving as well inspired
to do more things and also to bring
the work back into this physical space,
rather than just keep it purely digital.
So, yeah, mix of Instagram, Twitter and
then also going for art exhibitions and
galleries and museums and things.